docs(2025-build-tooling): update slides (#23)
maxpatiiuk/esri-dev-summit-presentations: 2025/build-tooling/slides.md

---

# Are you looking to...

> - Add a build step to your app?
> - Learn more about build tool capabilities?

Reviewer: Thanks for the refactor - I can see now that the order of items can be changed to be more logical:

```suggestion
- Learn about build tool capabilities?
- Add a build step to your app?
```

eg, people should first learn what are build tools and why, before learning how to add build tools to their apps

- Learn how Esri teams are leveraging modern build tools?

Then this presentation is for you!

---

# Agenda

- Overview
- Demos
  - Get started with Vite
  - Add dependencies
  - Use TypeScript and modern features
  - Lazy load source bundles
  - Publish the app
  - Add tests with Vitest
  - Add custom plugins

---

# What are build tools?

> Build tools automate tasks like bundling and optimizing source code, help manage dependencies, and enhance development workflows. Examples: Vite, Parcel, Webpack...
> 
> (Thanks Copilot)

Reviewer: make it more visually scannable:

```suggestion
Build tools help in the following ways:
- bundle and optimize source code
- simplify dependency management
- enhance development workflows

Examples: Vite, Parcel, Webpack...
```

Author: Put it in a quote - I like the idea of quoting copilot here for levity

---

# Build tool benefits

> - Improve development experience with live reload and hot module replacement
> - Enable modern JavaScript syntax features and dependencies
> - Automate bundling, minifying, and transpiling source code
> - Optimize performance by splitting bundles and reducing file sizes
> - Add plugins for additional capabilities, like tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve development experience (live reload and Hot Module Replacement)
- Enable modern JavaScript syntax and dependencies
- Automate transpiling, bundling and testing
- Optimize performance by splitting bundles and reducing file sizes
- Allow extending capabilities with plugins
```

Comments:
- transpiling happens before minifying
- instead of "transpiling" could also say downpiling or transforming, which are more self-explanatory terms
- you have "minifying"  twice (minifying on line 3, and reducing file sizes on line 4
- build tools add support for plugins, rather than directly add plugins

Author: Makes sense, updated and also made a few more minor changes, like "live updates" to match below

    - Replace CDN script tags with NPM imports
    - Link to map-components NPM get started

---

# Demo summary

- Quick to get started

> - Live reload and hot module replacement -> fast feedback loop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Live reload and Hot Module Replacement -> fast feedback loop
```

technically Hot Module Replacement requires live reload, so we could mention just one or the other

Hot Module Replacement is more inclusive, but also less familiar term - we could say just live reload, but show during the demo how this live reload preserves state?
or call it "live update" / "realtime update" instead?
or should we not worry about using complex terms?

Author: I like "live update"

---

# DEMO: Add custom plugins

> - Add JS API build plugin

Reviewer: curious what you had in mind?
externalizing js api and adding cdn script tags?
